
### Caching Topology

Ignite provides three different approaches to caching topology: Partitioned, Replicated and Local. A cache mode is configured for each cache individually. Every caching topology has its own goal with pros and cons. The default cache topology is partitioned, without any backup option.

1. Partitioned: The goal of this topology is to get extreme scalability. In this mode, the Ignite cluster transparently partitions the cached data to distribute the load across an entire cluster evenly. By partitioning the data evenly, the size of the cache and the processing power grows linearly with the size of the cluster. The responsibility for managing the data is automatically shared across the cluster. Every node or server in the cluster contains its primary data with a backup copy if defined.
   - With partitioned cache topology, DML operations on the cache are extremely fast, because only one primary node (optionally 1 or more backup node) needs to be updated for every key. For high availability, a backup copy of the cache entry should be configured. The backup copy is the redundant copy of one or more primary copies, which will live in another node.

2. Replicated: The goal of this approach is to get extreme performance. With this approach, cache data is replicated to all members of the cluster. Since the data is replicated to each cluster node, it is available for use without any waiting. This provides highest possible speed for read-access; each member accesses the data from its own memory. The downside is that frequent writes are very expensive. Updating a replicated cache requires pushing the new version to all other cluster members. This will limit the scalability if there are a high frequency of updates.

3. Local: This is a very primitive version of cache mode; with this approach, no data is distributed to other nodes in the cluster. As far as the Local cache does not have any replication or partitioning process, data fetching is very inexpensive and fast. It provides zero latency access to recently and frequently used data. The local cache is mostly used in read-only operations. It also works very well for read/write-through behavior, where data is loaded from the data sources on cache misses. Unlike a distributed cache, local cache still has all the features of distributed cache; it provides query caching, automatic data eviction and much more.
