
### CAP Theorem and Where Does Ignite Stand

- CA system: In this approach, you sacrifice partition tolerance for getting consistency and availability. Your database system offers transactions, and the system is highly available. Most of the relational databases are classified as CA systems. This system has serious problems with scaling.
- CP system: the opposite of the CA system. In CP system availability is sacrificed for consistency and partition-tolerance. In the event of the node failure, some data will be lost.
- AP system: This system is always available and partitioned. Also this system scales easily by adding nodes to the cluster. Cassandra is a good example of this type of system.

Now, we can return back to our question, where does Ignite stand in the CAP theorem? At first glance, Ignite can be classified by CP, because Ignite is fully ACID compliant distributed transactions with partitioned tolerance. But this is half part of the history. Apache Ignite can also be considered an AP system. But why does Ignite have two different classifications? Because it has two different transactional modes for cache operations, transactional and atomic. In transactional mode, you can group multiple DML operations in one transaction and make a commit into the cache. In this scenario, Ignite will lock data on access by a pessimistic lock. If you configure backup copy for the cache, Ignite will use 2p commit protocol for its transaction. On the other hand, in atomic mode Ignite supports multiple atomic operations, one at a time. In the atomic mode, each DML operation will either succeed or fail and neither Read nor Write operation will lock the data at all. This mode gives a higher performance than the transactional mode. When you make a write in Ignite cache, for every piece of data there will be a master copy in primary node and a backup copy (if defined). When you read data from Ignite grid, you always read from the Primary node, unless the Primary node is down, at which time data will be read from the backup. From this point of view, you gain the system availability and the partition-tolerance of the entire system as an AP system. In the atomic mode, Ignite is very similar to Apache Cassandra. However, real world systems rarely fall neatly into all of these above categories, so it's more helpful to view CAP as a continuum. Most systems will make some effort to be consistent, available, and partition tolerant, and many can be tuned depending on what's most important.
